MFEM-MOOSE Intro doc (#30636)
idaholab/moose: framework/doc/content/syntax/MFEM/index.md

# Getting started with MFEM-MOOSE

## Introduction

MFEM-MOOSE is a part of the MOOSE framework which utilizes [MFEM](https://mfem.org) as its main Finite Element Method backend. It expands upon MOOSE's base capabilities to support functionalities including but not limited to:

- High-order H(Div) and H(Curl) elements

> - Various assembly levels (including matrix-free)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Various assembly levels (including partial assembly targeting matrix-free algorithms)
```

| MFEM name      | MFEM-MOOSE name      |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| `DiffusionIntegrator` | `MFEMDiffusionKernel` |
| `CurlCurlIntegrator` | `MFEMCurlCurlKernel` |
| `VectorDomainLFIntegrator` | `MFEMVectorDomainLFKernel` |

Putting this together, our `Kernels` block might look as follows:

!listing test/tests/mfem/kernels/diffusion.i block=/Kernels

Now we set up boundary conditions. The full list of boundary conditions available may be found in the [BCs directory](source/mfem/bcs). Here, we choose scalar Dirichlet boundary conditions, which correspond to the [MFEMScalarDirichletBC.md] type.

!listing test/tests/mfem/kernels/diffusion.i block=/BCs

### Solver and Executioner

With the equation system set up, we specify how it is to be solved. Firstly, we choose a preconditioner and solver. The list of available types may be found in the [solvers directory](source/mfem/solvers). For problems with high polynomial order, setting [!param](/Solver/MFEMHypreGMRES/low_order_refined) to `true` may greatly increase performance, as explained [here](MFEMSolverBase.md).

> While in principle any solver may be used as main solver or preconditioner, the main limitation to keep in mind is that Hypre solvers may only be preconditioned by other Hypre solvers. Furthermore, when a Hypre solver has its `low_order_refined` parameter set to `true`, it ceases to be considered a Hypre solver for preconditioning purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While in principle any solver may be used as the main solver or preconditioner, the main limitation to keep in mind is that Hypre solvers may only be preconditioned by other Hypre solvers. Furthermore, when a Hypre solver has its `low_order_refined` parameter set to `true`, it ceases to be considered a Hypre solver for preconditioning purposes.
```

!listing test/tests/mfem/kernels/diffusion.i block=/Preconditioner Solver remove=jacobi

> Static and time-dependent executioners may be implemented respectively with the [MFEMSteady.md] and [MFEMTransient.md] types. If MFEM-MOOSE has been built with GPU offloading capabilities, it is possible to set [!param](/Executioner/MFEMSteady/device) to `cuda` or `hip` to make use of GPU acceleration. For GPU runs, it is advisable to choose an [!param](/Executioner/MFEMSteady/assembly_level) other than `legacy`, otherwise the matrix assembly step will not be offloaded. The options for [!param](/Executioner/MFEMSteady/assembly_level) are `legacy`, `full`, `element`, `partial`, and `none` (the latter is only available if MFEM-MOOSE has been built with libCEED support).

Reviewer: What does `none` mean? I thought that the main target of libCEED was also partial assembly

Reviewer 2: "NONE, "Matrix-free" form that computes all of its action on-the-fly without any substantial storage. In this case [the matrix of quadrature values] D is computed on the fly, this format is also significantly faster than the matrix formats, but is currently slower than partial assembly due to the increased number of computations. However, in the case of operators that need to be reassembled frequently this assembly level might be faster than partial assembly by skipping any reassembly steps."

# Getting started with MFEM-MOOSE

!if! function=hasCapability('mfem')

## Introduction

MFEM-MOOSE is a part of the MOOSE framework which utilizes [MFEM](https://mfem.org) as its main Finite Element Method backend. It expands upon MOOSE's base capabilities to support functionalities including but not limited to:

- High-order H(Div) and H(Curl) elements
- Various assembly levels (including partial assembly targeting matrix-free algorithms)
- GPU offloading (CUDA or HIP)
- Low-Order-Refined solvers

## Installing MFEM-MOOSE

Installation instructions for MFEM-MOOSE can be found in [this page](getting_started/installation/install_mfem.md optional=True).

## Solving a problem with MFEM-MOOSE

> Much of the syntax of the usual MOOSE scripts is preserved when creating scripts for MFEM-MOOSE. Example scripts may be found in the kernel tests directory, `test/tests/mfem/kernels/`. Here, we lay out the step-by-step process of writing a MFEM-MOOSE script to solve a simple diffusion problem. The full script may be found [here](/test/tests/mfem/kernels/diffusion.i). We roughly split the script into five parts: Problem, Geometry, Equation System, Solver and Executioner, and Output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Much of the syntax of the usual MOOSE input file is preserved when creating input files for MFEM-MOOSE. Example input files may be found in the kernel tests directory, `test/tests/mfem/kernels/`. Here, we lay out the step-by-step process of writing a MFEM-MOOSE input file to solve a simple diffusion problem. The full input file may be found [here](/test/tests/mfem/kernels/diffusion.i). We roughly split the input file into five parts: Problem, Geometry, Equation System, Solver and Executioner, and Output.
```

!listing test/tests/mfem/kernels/diffusion.i block=/FESpaces

In this diffusion example, besides the usual `H1` space required to solve the system, we also include an `ND` space so that we may output the gradient of the result as an `AuxVariable` later on. However, if you only wish to visualize the scalar result, it is not necessary to include the `ND` space.

### Equation System - Variables, Kernels, and Boundary Conditions

Having created the necessary finite element spaces, we may now set up the variables to be solved for. They should be of type [MFEMVariable.md]. Each variable should also be associated with a relevant finite element space.

!listing test/tests/mfem/kernels/diffusion.i block=/Variables

Here, if we also wish to output the gradient of the result, we can add it as an `AuxVariable` and set up its corresponding [`AuxKernel`](MFEMAuxKernel.md).

!listing test/tests/mfem/kernels/diffusion.i block=/AuxVariables AuxKernels

> Then, within the `Kernels` block, we specify the weak forms to be added to our equation system. Typically, one would pick the MFEM integrators they wish to implement by checking the [linear form integrators page](https://mfem.org/lininteg/) and the [bilinear form integrators page](https://mfem.org/bilininteg/). Note that not all linear and bilinear forms that are available in MFEM have been implemented in MFEM-MOOSE. For a full list, check the kernels directory, `framework/src/mfem/kernels`. Should you wish to implement an integrator that is not yet available, please raise an issue in the MOOSE repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then, within the `Kernels` block, we specify the weak forms to be added to our equation system. Typically, one would pick the MFEM integrators they wish to implement by checking the [linear form integrators page](https://mfem.org/lininteg/) and the [bilinear form integrators page](https://mfem.org/bilininteg/). Note that not all linear and bilinear forms that are available in MFEM have been implemented in MFEM-MOOSE. For a full list, check the kernels directory, `framework/src/mfem/kernels`. Should you wish to implement an integrator that is not yet available, please submit a [feature request](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/issues/new?template=feature-request.yml).
```

If the integrator you wish to use is available, you can specify it in the `type` parameter simply by taking its MFEM integrator name, swapping the word `Integrator` for `Kernel`, and prepending MFEM to the beginning of its name. The table below shows a few examples of this naming convention:

| MFEM name      | MFEM-MOOSE name      |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| `DiffusionIntegrator` | `MFEMDiffusionKernel` |
| `CurlCurlIntegrator` | `MFEMCurlCurlKernel` |
| `VectorDomainLFIntegrator` | `MFEMVectorDomainLFKernel` |

Putting this together, our `Kernels` block might look as follows:

!listing test/tests/mfem/kernels/diffusion.i block=/Kernels

> Now we set up boundary conditions. The full list of boundary conditions available may be found in the BCs directory, `framework/src/mfem/bcs`. Here, we choose scalar Dirichlet boundary conditions, which correspond to the [MFEMScalarDirichletBC.md] type.

Reviewer 3: You don't have to address this comment here, this is for future reference.

We typically don't point users to a source directory in the documentation, i.e., `framework/src/mfem/bcs`, because users sometimes work with binary installs and don't always have direct access to the source tree. But I also see your dilemma here: there is no separate section listing the mfem BCs -- they are mangled with all the other framework BCs in the syntax documentation. @cticenhour Do you have any suggestion here?

Reviewer 3: Similar problem goes to `framework/src/mfem/solvers` and `framework/src/mfem/outputs` below. I guess this works for now, just something to think about.

Reviewer 3: I guess an alternative is to point to the corresponding section on the syntax page and say "go look for objects prefixed with MFEM" :)

Reviewer 3: Source files and objects' syntax types don't always match, though.

Interestingly, @GiudGiud once suggested we make these optional packages (e.g., mfem, neml2) into modules (not git submodules, but moose physics modules). I haven't had a chance to thoroughly think through his suggestion at that time, but now I start to understand his arguments. That may naturally address issues like syntax listing. I don't know how much of effort it would be to adopt the "module" approach. But I think we'd better make a decision earlier than later, before this evolves into too much of a technical debt.

Reviewer 2: > I guess an alternative is to point to the corresponding section on the syntax page and say "go look for objects prefixed with MFEM" :)

Done that, plus a link to the source page for completeness.
We still mention the tests directory, but that'll change soon in #30637 anyway. :)
